---
layout: post
order: 4
title: "Stochas"
summary: Stochas is a probabilistic polyrhythmic sequencer plugin
featured-img: stochas
categories: [Sequencer, Plugin]
---


## History
Stochas was originally developed as closed-source software back in 2016 and was made available for sale by Audio Vitamins.
The plugin was designed by Andrew Shakinovsky and Dave Clissold, and all coding was done by Andrew Shakinovsky. The original idea sprang from a JSFX plugin (Reaper plugin) created by Andrew called Stochasticizer which allowed semi-random sequencing of melodic and drum lines. Andrew was contacted by Dave who suggested creating a plugin that would work on any DAW. The two worked together to design the product which was released a few months later. Due to lack of time to devote to marketing a
commercial product, in 2020, it was decided to release the software as open-source in the hope that it would be useful to music producers around the world.

## Features
- Cross platform MIDI sequencer surfaced as a VST/AU/etc. plugin
- Allows random selection of designated notes in a sequence (random or semi-random melodic lines)
- Allows random triggering of notes (more dynamic and varied drum patterns)
- Adjust randomness of note start times for more humanized playback
- Adjust randomness of note velocity and length
- Fully MIDI-programmable interface for live performance. Mute/unmute layers, change patterns, time signature, etc. on the fly via MIDI.
- Chain mode allows procedural programming (eg "if this note plays/doesn't play then always/never play this other note")
- Adjust note start time to move sequence "off the grid", as well as note length.
- Record incoming midi to grid
- Use Chord mode to quickly add chords to the sequence
- Select from preset scales, or customize notes in grid along with note names. Save/load note names from file
- Add swing or groove. Import groove from MIDI files
- Create up to four layers with differing time signature, playback speed and/or number of steps per layer
- Create up to eight patterns


More information coming soon. Source and more at: https://github.com/surge-synthesizer/stochas
